Update and restructuring on spin bit text (#66)
quicwg/ops-drafts: draft-ietf-quic-manageability.md

is no current proposal to implement these changes:  see
https://github.com/quicwg/base-drafts/issues/602.

## Round-Trip Time (RTT) Measurement {#sec-rtt}

Round-trip time of QUIC flows can be inferred by observation once per flow,
during the handshake, as in passive TCP measurement; this requires parsing of
the QUIC packet header and recognition of the handshake, as illustrated in
{{handshake}}. It can also be inferred during the flow's lifetime, if the
endpoints use the spin bit facility described below and in

> {{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, section X.X.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{QUIC-TRANSPORT}}, section 17.3.1.
```
(This is the present location in the editor's draft. Otherwise, we can omit the section reference.)

observer-to-server RTT components together. This measurement necessarily
includes any transport and application layer delay at both sides.

# Using the Spin Bit for Passive RTT Measurement {#spin-usage}

> The spin bit provides an additional method to measure intraflow per-flow RTT

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The spin bit provides an additional method to measure per-flow RTT
```

from observation points on the network path throughout the duration of a

> connection. Support of the spin bit is an optional feature in QUIC. Usage of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
connection. Participation in spin bit signaling is optional for QUIC endpoints.
```

> connection. Support of the spin bit is an optional feature in QUIC. Usage of

Reviewer 2: You may want to clarify what "support" means. How about:
"Supporting the spin bit is an optional feature in QUIC.  That is, while its location is fixed in this version of QUIC, an endpoint can unilaterally choose to not support "spinning" the bit.  Use of the spin bit for RTT measurement by devices on path is only possible when both endpoints enable it."

Reviewer: maybe "Endpoint participation in spin bit signaling is optional in QUIC." as the first sentence, but yep...

Author: Done

> the spin bit mechanism must be enabled by both endpoints in order to function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spin bit mechanism must be enabled by both endpoints in order to function.
```

Some endpoints may disable use of the the spin bit by default, others only in
specific deployment scenarios, e.g. for servers and clients where the RTT would
reveal the presence of a VPN or proxy. In order to not make these connections

> identifyable based on the usage of the spin bit, all endpoints are recommended

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
identifiable based on the usage of the spin bit, it is recommended that all endpoints
```

> to disable to spin randomly for at least one eighth of connections, even if

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
disable "spinning" randomly for at least one eighth of connections, even if
```

otherwise enabled by default. If disable the connection would either use a
fixed spin value for the while connection ("no spinning") or would set the

> spin bit randomly on each packet of the connection.

Reviewer 2: This last sentence needs work.

Reviewer: how about "An endpoint not participating in spin bit signaling for a given connection can use a fixed spin value for the duration of the connection, or can set the bit randomly on each packet sent."

Author: Sorry there were a bunch of nits in this sentence but used Brian's proposal now.

When in use and a QUIC flow sends data continuously, the latency spin bit in
each direction changes value once per round-trip time (RTT). An on-path observer
can observe the time difference between edges (changes from 1 to 0 or 0 to 1)
in the spin bit signal in a single direction to measure one sample of
end-to-end RTT.

Note that this measurement, as with passive RTT measurement for TCP, includes
any transport protocol delay (e.g., delayed sending of acknowledgements)

> and/or application layer delay (e.g., waiting for a request to complete). It

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and/or application layer delay (e.g., waiting for a response to be generated). It
```

therefore provides devices on path a good instantaneous estimate of the RTT as
experienced by the application. A simple linear smoothing or moving minimum
filter can be applied to the stream of RTT information to get a more stable
estimate.

However, application-limited and flow-control-limited senders can have
application and transport layer delay, respectively, that are much greater
than network RTT. When the sender is application-limited and e.g. only sends
small amount of periodic application traffic, where that period is longer than
the RTT, measuring the spin bit provides information about the application
period, not the network RTT.

> Since the spin bit logic at each endpoint considers only samples on packets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Since the spin bit logic at each endpoint considers only samples from packets
```

> that advance the largest packet number seen, signal generation itself is

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that advance the largest packet number, signal generation itself is
```

resistant to reordering. However, reordering can cause problems at an observer
by causing spurious edge detection and therefore low RTT estimates, if

> reordering occurs across a spin bit flip in the stream.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
reordering occurs across a spin-bit flip in the stream.
```
